# kickstarter-analysis
Kickstarting with Excel  Module one

## Overview of Project

	To analyse data concerning kickstarter programs as they relate to release dates, fundraising goals, 
	and outcomes to best determine a tangable goal and when to start fundraising for that goal.

### Purpose

	Generate two reports and graphs to look at the outcomes of kickstarters based on launch dates and goals.	

## Analysis and Challenges
	
	

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date

	According to the chart generated by the data, The best month to launch a new theater production is May to be successful.
	I would not recommend launching a new theater production in December as the number of failed and successful campaigns was about equal which makes the chances only 50/50 that it would be successful.

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals

	The campaigns with goals of under $5000, ahd the highest percantage of success over any other range of fundraising goals. There was a high percentage of successful campaigns in the $35000 to $45000 range as well.

### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
	

## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?

		That Launching a Theater production, over the summer, May to July, especially in May would be the best chance of it being successful.  Over the winter month, especially in December there were just as many successful theater launch dates as failed ones, so the odds are not as good it will be successful.

- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
		
		A lot of to total goal for a kickstarter depends on the overall goal.  Right around to $15,000-$20,000 mark is where the amount of successful and failed kickstarter programs swapped, and there were more failed ones than successful.  There is a small window from $35,000-$45,000 where there were more successful launched kickstarters but switched back again if the goal was higher than $45,000.

- What are some limitations of this dataset?

		There are a lot of outside factors that could contribute to the success and failures of a kickstarter program.  Depending on what is happening with the economy in genreal, can people afford to invest, does that particular program have a large enough fan base to support creating another theater program?  Are there teir of investments with incentives to invest more?  The duration, how long did the kickstarter last? In what month did the kickstarter begin?   

- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?

		I think looking at the duration of each would give us a better understanding of the funding that it recieved to be a success, and also how it was advertized.  Were there incentives to donate more to hit the goal?  What other events took place during that time period that could draw attention towards ot away from donating: The holdiday saeson, tax return season for example.
